 A2A HANDOFF ARTIFACT

KISS Dashboard ­ MVP Workflow Architecture & Technical Brief

For: DeepSeek + ChatGPT Collaboration
Prepared by: Kevin Kane
Date: 2025-10-20

1. Purpose of this Handoff

DeepSeek's role is technical workflow orchestration -- not to code, but to analyze and refine
how ChatGPT (GPT-5) collaborates with local coding tools and the development environment.
The goal is to maintain the modular, minimalist, workflow-centric architecture of the KISS
Dashboard while maximizing automation, clarity, and developer independence.

2. Project Summary

KISS Dashboard is a modular interface system composed of editable cubes ("digital sonar
pads") that can represent tools, AI agents, or workflows. The MVP's job is to prove that this
system can exist in a live web environment where:

     A user creates, renames, and rearranges cubes on a grid.
     Layouts persist to a cloud backend (Firebase).
     The interface is fully minimalist -- text only, no iconography.
     An onboarding "AI cube" populates the grid with preset model labels.
     Layouts can be shared and mirrored on mobile.

3. Conceptual Workflow Machine

Think of the KISS Dashboard as a machine of sections, like a photographic studio layout:

Machine Section                        Purpose                Analog (Photo Studio)

UI Layer                    Cube grid display and user      Lighting setup and
                            interaction                     composition

State Manager               Keeps live positions and names of Shot list clipboard
                            cubes

Persistence Layer           Syncs layout to Firebase        Negative storage/archive

Sharing Layer               Generates read-only faceplates  Contact sheet or print proof

Agent Layer (future)        API hooks and AI cubes          Retoucher or assistant

Community Layer             Marketplace and P2P trade       Agency or gallery network
(future)
This mental model ensures troubleshooting and scaling can happen "station by station" without
refactoring the entire system.

4. AI-to-AI Collaboration Goals

DeepSeek should:

1. Oversee the build choreography: ensure each module (UI, state, persistence) has a
    clearly defined boundary and data contract.

2. Optimize prompt workflows: define how ChatGPT CLI/Codex sessions generate local
    code safely and iteratively.

3. Enforce the "Machine Sections" discipline: no monoliths; every piece can be
    inspected or replaced.

4. Validate architectural decisions (framework, security, data model).
5. Translate creative intent (minimalism, modularity) into engineering heuristics.

ChatGPT's role during build:

 Generate and refactor code locally (Next.js + Firebase).
 Maintain alignment with this brief and update DeepSeek on progress milestones.

5. Technical Blueprint           Tool         Function
Stack

        Layer

Frontend          Next.js + React + Tailwind  Grid UI, PWA framework

State             Zustand                     Cube management

Backend           Firebase (Auth, Firestore,  Persistence + Auth
                  Storage)

Deployment Vercel                             Hosting + previews

AI API (future) OpenAI Responses API          Dynamic cube agents

 Design System Figma minimalist tokens        Typography, spacing, cube
6. Core Data Flow                             metrics

flowchart LR

User -->|drag/rename| UI[CubeGrid]

UI -->|update state| Store[Zustand]
Store -->|sync| Firestore[(Firebase)]

Firestore -->|persist| LayoutDB[Faceplates + Cubes]

User -->|share| Link[Share Token]

Link -->|view-only| Viewer

Each cube interaction triggers:

    1. Local update  2. Zustand store update  3. Firestore sync (debounced). This avoids
         lag while guaranteeing recovery on refresh.

7. AI Integration Pathway (Phase 2)

     The AI Cube acts as a dynamic parent node.
     Clicking it expands sub-cubes linked to model identifiers (ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini,

         etc.).
     Each sub-cube can open a context panel that communicates with an OpenAI endpoint.
     DeepSeek will define prompt templates and data hand-off between these panels and the

         API layer.

8. Workflow-Level Automation

To preserve "Keep It Simple" discipline, all automation will occur through explicit workflow
steps:

    1. Plan -- ChatGPT summarizes new feature scope and dependencies.
    2. Scaffold -- Codex or local CLI generates or edits specific files.
    3. Review -- DeepSeek validates architecture alignment and prompts GPT-5 to self-check

         design.
    4. Commit -- Changes merged with brief citations in commit notes.
    5. Test/Run -- Local preview via Vercel dev or Firebase emulator.

DeepSeek ensures these loops remain linear and observable -- no opaque end-to-end
automation.

9. Governance Principles

     Transparency: Each AI's contribution is logged and reviewable.
     Human in the loop: Final design and feature approval remain human decisions.
     Simplicity First: If a feature requires onboarding or documentation, question its

         necessity.
     Composable Future: Every layer can evolve independently.

10. Immediate Deliverables for DeepSeek
    1. Validate the file structure and docs in kiss-dashboard-mvp.zip.
    2. Produce a workflow diagram or checklist for GPT-5 + Codex collaboration (focus:

         local code generation).
    3. Recommend guardrails for version control and environment separation (dev,

         staging, prod).
    4. Review the data model for scalability and consistency.
    5. Return a technical workflow memo summarizing alignment and risk mitigation.

11. Success Definition (for A2A loop)

DeepSeek has successfully fulfilled its advisory role when:

     ChatGPT + Codex can autonomously scaffold and test one vertical slice (grid +
         persistence).

     The repo structure, data flow, and UX interactions remain human-comprehensible.
     The machine (sections) can be debugged independently without cross-module failures.

12. Contact Handshake Protocol

     Primary AI: ChatGPT (GPT-5) -- Creative/engineering orchestration
     Advisory AI: DeepSeek -- Workflow verification and architectural validation
     Context Anchor: This A2A Handoff Artifact + kiss-dashboard-mvp.zip
